feat(release-note 7.8): start (#616)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: md/release-notes.md

# Release notes

## New values added

> <a id="uipath"/>

Reviewer: je mettrai UiPath en second, apres le project explorer

Author: alright. Moved.

From this view, you can create, open, edit, delete and use SVN and Git commands, simply with a right click.
**Diagrams:**
The BPMN palette is now included in the diagram view, and if you collapse it, it still automatically opens when your mouse passes over its closed panel, and closes once you have selected the element to drag and drop on the diagram.
The overview of the diagram is now stacked in the properties view, after the Validation tab, and is now called "Minimap".
As for the Tree view, it is displayed just by the Project explorer, as a deep dive in the diagram content.
**REST API extensions:**
The tree view is now nested in the global project explorer.

<a id="callback"/>

### Bonita callback method
A new REST API sendMessage is available for when Bonita has launched an external service (like UiPath or DocuSign) and needs to be called back in an asynchronous manner.

<a id="modal"/>

### Modal container to create pop-ins 
A new container is now available in the UI Designer palette. To manage such containers, the button widget gains two actions: "Open modal" and "Close modal".

> It is important to notice that on the editor, embedding a modal window in another modal window is not supported. Embed the buttons to open pop-ins in pop-ins, but not the modal containers themselves.

Reviewer: that's a pity to provide more words on the limitation that the value ! 
to be franc : include modal in modal is not a comme use case. I would not be so pushy on this limitation.
my proposal is to replace the second sentence by "
(note that embed a modal into another modal is not supported)

Author: good comment. Changed.

<a id="workers-logs"/>

### Monitoring of number and details of engine workers

> In Bonita logs, busy engine workers and their activity is now available.

Reviewer: provide some exemple of information provided : exemple of log (with style verbatim)

Author: This has been changed. It is no log, it is JMS counter, only available when pluging a JMS console on Bonita JVM.

> Busy engine workers and their activity is now available through JMS counters. Plug a JMS console on Bonita JVM to monitor workers activity.

Reviewer 2: :+1:

<a id="convert"/>

> ### Change the type of a UI Designer artifact, from page to form and from form to page

Reviewer 2: This sentence is hard to read :laughing: !

Author: Changed it to "Change the type of a UI Designer artifact (page/form)"

<a id="improvements"/>

## Improvements

<a id="uuid"/>

### Stability of files throughout revisions
Updating timers, business data, data dependencies, messages, pools, contract inputs, parameters, expressions, connectors, and documents, used to create additional UUID (Universal Unique Identifier) that resulted in false positives when comparing two revisions of the same file (using Git or SVN). This has been improved to make only real changes stick out when using a Diff Tool.

<a id="rest-timeout"/>

### REST connector Read timeout is configurable
In the REST connector, it is now possible to set the connection timeout (during connection) and the socket timeout (lack of answer of the distant machine after connection).
The default value is one minute for both, the values that were hard-coded before.

<a id="ldap-error"/>

### LDAP synchronizer manages errors and continues on fail
Better error management during LDAP synchronization.

<a id="clause-in"/>

### BDM query parameters accept arrays

> It is now possible to query for multiple values of an attribute in the BDM objects.

Reviewer 2: Requires detailed explanations to better understand the improvement.

Author: I have added the example that Romain had put in the Jira issue.

<a id="translate-expression"/>

> ### In the UI Designer, strings in JavaScript expressions can now be translated

Reviewer: to be put in new values section

Author: Yes. Changed since the version you have read.

When writing the content of a variable of type JavaScript Expression, autocompletion now offers a new service for translation; uiTranslate().

<a id="metadata"/>

> ### Add a display name and display description to a page, form, or layout from the Editor

Reviewer: to be added to New values

Author: same

Display name and description are used when the page, form, or layout are imported in the portal's Resources page.
They could be edited by opening the page.properties file. Now, they can be directly edited in the page, form, or layout editor of the UI Designer, by clicking on the new "Tag" button.

<a id="bonita-calls"/>

> ### Get a summary of the calls to Bonita REST API made in a page, form, or layout

Reviewer: to be added in new values

Author: done since the version you have read

Also by clicking on the "Tag" button, you can get a summary of all REST API calls made by the current artifact to the Bonita REST API.
This helps validating if all expected calls are well implemented in the artifact in its current state.

<a id="bonita-theme"/>

> ### New Living Applications theme

Reviewer: this is new... so to be pu in new values :)

Author: same

> A new theme is available for any Living Application you create: "bonita-default-theme". 

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can indicate that this theme mimics the portal look and feel.

Author: It has a blue menu where the portal has a red menu. Not sure then.

<a id="operations-apiaccessor"/>

### Warning on best practices when using API in operations
In diagram operations, the right operand should only use the apiAccessor with read-only methods. After helping several customers with scripts calling the apiAccessor with "write"-type methods, we have created a warning in the studio, when detecting the apiAccessor is called in an opreation script.

<a id="technology-updates"/>

## Technology updates

<a id="kerberos"/>

> ### Integration of SSO Kerberos (Teamwork, Efficiency, Performance edition)

Reviewer: Support of SSO Kerberos is a new Values, not a "simple" techno update

Author: This is where SAML has been put in 7.5. I can move both.

> ### Integration of SSO Kerberos (Teamwork, Efficiency, Performance edition)

Reviewer 3: "Integration of Kerberos/SPNEGO based SSO" would be more accurate

Author: sure. Changed.

> Bonita works with Single-Sign-On (SSO) solutions using Kerberos protocol:

Reviewer 3: "using Kerberos/SPNEGO protocol"
FYI: Kerberos is a network authentication protocol for client/server applications, and SPNEGO provides a mechanism for extending Kerberos to Web applications through the HTTP protocol (which is what we use)

Author: thanks for the useful explanation. Changed.

> - Use standard authentication service

Reviewer 3: Uses password or passphrase authentication service engine side (same as for SAML integration)

Author: Changed. Should we also change it for SAML then?

Reviewer 3: I guess we should if it is presented like that too. Where ? In an old RN ?

> - Connect to Bonita Living Applications with company credentials (per tenant configuration)

Reviewer 3: Why just "Bonita Living application" ? Shouldn't we say "Bonita Portal and Living Applications" ?

I believe "- Per tenant configuration" should be on a dedicated line

Author: I agree for the portal. Changed. 
OK for the per tenant config. Changed.
I've copied and pasted what was written for SAML. I'll change it there too then.

> - Works for Windows and many UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems: FreeBSD, Apple's MacOS, RED Hat Enterprise Linux, Oracle's Solaris..

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't specify the other operating system since we did not test it on them. Some people report they made it work with solaris or some linux OS on the Spnego filter forum but we did not test it with our integration.
Maybe, "compatible with Windows authentication and many UNIX-like operating systems"

Author: I'll go for it. Thx.

<a id="other-dependencies"/>

## Other dependency updates

<a id="spring"/>

### Spring
Some internal libraries have been updated to newer versions:
* spring framework version is now 5.0.10.RELEASE
* spring-boot version is now 2.0.6.RELEASE

<a id="tomcat"/>

### Tomcat 8.5.34

> Update to a newer Tomcat version.

Reviewer: Find more info on the Tomcat changelog official page : https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-8.5-doc/changelog.html

Author: Added. Thanks

<a id="feature-removals"/>

## Feature removals

<a id="gwt"/>

> ### GWT technology in the Portal (1/n)

Reviewer 2: what does 1/n mean?

Author: I'm expecting there will be many annoucements of new pages in the future releases. But I'll remove this "just-for-myself-not-understandable-by-others" pager :]

Author: I'm also moving it from the "Feature removal" section to the "Improvements" section. Better.

As Google Web Toolkit is an ageing technology, Bonita needs to transform the pages of Bonita Portal step by step.

> In this Bonita 7.8 release, two pages have been redone: 

Reviewer 3: Not a big fan of done/redone
Maybe "have been rewriten" ?  or "have been covered" ?

Author: ok. Changed.

Author: also moved this to the "improvements" section and not "features removals".

 - Process list for the profile User

>    It has been done using React. It is made available in the portal's Resources page, so it can be used in any application. It cannot be edited in the UI Designer.

Reviewer 3: "It has been developed using React" or "The new page uses React"
link to https://reactjs.org/ ?

Author: nice. Thx. Added.

 - Tenant status page for the profile Technical Administrator
   It has been done using the UI Designer and the new modal container. Since it is dedicated to a profile critical for the good initialization and management of Bonita, the page has not been made available in the portal's resources. It cannot be added to any application nor be edited in the UI Designer.

<a id="6.x-form"/>

> ### 6.x forms based on GWT technology

Reviewer: add a sentence like: 
The latest Bonita version to support 6.x forms and overview pages is Bonita 7.7.x. For any questions, contact the Bonita Support Team or Customer Success representative.

Author: ok. done.

>    It has been done using the UI Designer and the new modal container. Since it is dedicated to a profile critical for the good initialization and management of Bonita, the page has not been made available in the portal's resources. It cannot be added to any application nor be edited in the UI Designer.

Reviewer 3: "The new page was created using the UI Designer..." ?

Author: ok. changed for both pages.

>    It has been done using the UI Designer and the new modal container. Since it is dedicated to a profile critical for the good initialization and management of Bonita, the page has not been made available in the portal's resources. It cannot be added to any application nor be edited in the UI Designer.

Reviewer 3: "It can neither be used in any application nor exported to be edited in the UI Designer" ?

Author: Checking with Mickey and implementing what she answers back.

<a id="metadata"/>

### Add a display name and display description to a page, form, or layout from the Editor
Display name and description are used when the page, form, or layout are imported in the portal's Resources page.
They could be edited by opening the page.properties file. Now, they can be directly edited in the page, form, or layout editor of the UI Designer, by clicking on the new "Tag" button.

<a id="bonita-calls"/>

### Get a summary of the calls to Bonita REST API made in a page, form, or layout
Also by clicking on the "Tag" button, you can get a summary of all REST API calls made by the current artifact to the Bonita REST API.
This helps validating if all expected calls are well implemented in the artifact in its current state.

<a id="clause-in"/>

### BDM query parameters accept arrays
It is now possible to query for multiple values of an attribute in the BDM objects.
On example: 
{code:sql}
SELECT e
FROM Employee e
WHERE e.firstName IN (_:firstNames_)
ORDER BY p.persistenceId ASC
{code}
where _:firstNames_ is a query parameter with a String[] type.

<a id="workers-logs"/>

> ### Monitoring of number and details of engine workers

Reviewer 4: ⚠️ not available in Community

Reviewer 2: Correct

Author: added, thx

> Busy engine workers and their activity is now available through JMS counters. Plug a JMS console on Bonita JVM to monitor workers activity.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Busy engine workers and their activity is now available through JMS counters. Plug a JMX client on Bonita JVM to monitor workers activity.
```

Author: thx

### LDAP synchronizer manages errors and continues on fail
Better error management during LDAP synchronization.

<a id="operations-apiaccessor"/>

### Warning on best practices when using API in operations
In diagram operations, the right operand should only use the apiAccessor with read-only methods. After helping several customers with scripts calling the apiAccessor with "write"-type methods, we have created a warning in the studio, when detecting the apiAccessor is called in an opreation script.

<a id="technology-updates"/>

## Technology updates

<a id="tomcat"/>

### Tomcat 8.5.34
Update to a newer Tomcat version. Find more info on the [Tomcat changelog official page](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-8.5-doc/changelog.html)

<a id="other-dependencies"/>

## Other dependency updates

<a id="spring"/>

### Spring
Some internal libraries have been updated to newer versions:
* spring framework version is now 5.0.10.RELEASE
* spring-boot version is now 2.0.6.RELEASE

<a id="feature-removals"/>

## Feature removals

<a id="6.x-form"/>

### 6.x forms based on GWT technology
Studio forms and case overview page based on Google Web Toolkit (GWT) technology are not supported anymore. 

> They have been removed from Bonita Studio. Importing a .bos will not import such forms or overview page.

Reviewer 3: or overview page**s**

> It is no longer possible to import BAR files created with Bonita 5.x in the Studio. If you still need to migrate 5.x bar, use Bonita Studio __7.7.x__ version.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should add that the "resources/forms" directory of the business archives gets removed from the database when migrating to 7.8.x

Author: ok after explanation by Romain (!). Added.

### Debug action in Studio

> ## Supported Tomcat version

Reviewer: to be merged with the techno update on tomcat version...

Author: it is red, it means it has been deleted

> Debug, the option to run a diagram without its connectors, is not supported anymore, as its value proved to be too little.

Reviewer 2: too ~little~ => small

Reviewer 3: :+1:

Author: Both work. I'm fine with changing.
